Love and work... work and love, that's all there is.
Most people do not really want freedom, because freedom involves responsibility, and most people are frightened of responsibility.
The great question that has never been answered, and which I have not yet been able to answer, despite my thirty years of research into the feminine soul, is 'What does a woman want?'
The first human who hurled an insult instead of a stone was the founder of civilization.
Love and work are the cornerstones of our humanness.
The interpretation of dreams is the royal road to a knowledge of the unconscious activities of the mind.
Illusions commend themselves to us because they save us pain and allow us to enjoy pleasure instead. We must therefore accept it without complaint when they sometimes collide with a bit of reality against which they are dashed to pieces.
Neurosis is the inability to tolerate ambiguity.
If you can't do it, give up!
A man who has been the indisputable favorite of his mother keeps for life the feeling of a conqueror.
We are never so defenseless against suffering as when we love.
Civilization began the first time an angry person cast a word instead of a rock.
A man should not strive to eliminate his complexes but to get into accord with them: they are legitimately what directs his conduct in the world.
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.
Where id was, there ego shall be.
What progress we are making. In the Middle Ages they would have burned me. Now they are content with burning my books.
The tendency to aggression is an innate, independent, instinctual disposition in man... it constitutes the powerful obstacle to culture.
Obviously one must hold oneself responsible for the evil impulses of one's dreams. In what other way can one deal with them? Unless the content of the dream rightly understood is inspired by alien spirits, it is part of my own being.
Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.
I have found little that is 'good' about human beings on the whole. In my experience most of them are trash, no matter whether they publicly subscribe to this or that ethical doctrine or to none at all.
I cannot think of any need in childhood as strong as the need for a father's protection.
Dreams are often most profound when they seem the most crazy.
The mind is like an iceberg, it floats with one-seventh of its bulk above water.
The voice of the intellect is a soft one, but it does not rest until it has gained a hearing.
Just as no one can be forced into belief, so no one can be forced into unbelief.
The first requisite of civilization is that of justice.
The conscious mind may be compared to a fountain playing in the sun and falling back into the great subterranean pool of subconscious from which it rises.
What we call happiness in the strictest sense comes from the (preferably sudden) satisfaction of needs which have been dammed up to a high degree.
What a distressing contrast there is between the radiant intelligence of the child and the feeble mentality of the average adult.
Religion is an illusion and it derives its strength from the fact that it falls in with our instinctual desires.
Anatomy is destiny.
Sadism is all right in its place, but it should be directed to proper ends.
Men are more moral than they think and far more immoral than they can imagine.
Men are strong so long as they represent a strong idea they become powerless when they oppose it.
Opposition is not necessarily enmity; it is merely misused and made an occasion for enmity.
We believe that civilization has been created under the pressure of the exigencies of life at the cost of satisfaction of the instincts.
The liberty of the individual is no gift of civilization. It was greatest before there was any civilization.
The doctor should be opaque to his patients and, like a mirror, should show them nothing but what is shown to him.
The psychical, whatever its nature may be, is itself unconscious.
A certain degree of neurosis is of inestimable value as a drive, especially to a psychologist.
Flowers are restful to look at. They have neither emotions nor conflicts.
He that has eyes to see and ears to hear may convince himself that no mortal can keep a secret. If his lips are silent, he chatters with his fingertips; betrayal oozes out of him at every pore.
If youth knew; if age could.
The goal of all life is death.
If a man has been his mother's undisputed darling he retains throughout life the triumphant feeling, the confidence in success, which not seldom brings actual success along with it.
A civilization which leaves so large a number of its participants unsatisfied and drives them into revolt neither has nor deserves the prospect of a lasting existence.
The ego is not master in its own house.
Whoever loves becomes humble. Those who love have, so to speak, pawned a part of their narcissism.
Every normal person, in fact, is only normal on the average. His ego approximates to that of the psychotic in some part or other and to a greater or lesser extent.
America is a mistake, a giant mistake.
The goal towards which the pleasure principle impels us - of becoming happy - is not attainable: yet we may not - nay, cannot - give up the efforts to come nearer to realization of it by some means or other.
Everywhere I go I find that a poet has been there before me.
One is very crazy when in love.
The act of birth is the first experience of anxiety, and thus the source and prototype of the affect of anxiety.
Neurotics complain of their illness, but they make the most of it, and when it comes to talking it away from them they will defend it like a lioness her young.
Man has, as it were, become a kind of prosthetic God. When he puts on all his auxiliary organs, he is truly magnificent; but those organs have not grown on him and they still give him much trouble at times.
Analogies, it is true, decide nothing, but they can make one feel more at home.
America is the most grandiose experiment the world has seen, but, I am afraid, it is not going to be a success.
It is impossible to overlook the extent to which civilization is built upon a renunciation of instinct.
Yes, America is gigantic, but a gigantic mistake.
